well perhaps the coolest most expensive
Camaro ever built was a 69 zl1
during the peak there were almost a
million dollars today there's still a
half million dollars they only built 69
well one of our good customers asked us
if we could do some aluminum panels for
zl1 clone so we're actually made some
aluminum door skins that we're gonna
bond to this steel frame here we've got
some neat products this is best
practices for panel adhesion doesn't
matter if it's aluminum or steel the
process is the same well the first step
is to make sure that both panels are
nice and clean but you don't want to
ever mix up to disk we're going to start
with a 50 grit on the steel
now you want to make sure that you
switch off the discs because you're
never gonna miss an aluminum in a steel
grinding this this one we're gonna go
with an 80 grit
once you're finished that you're just
gonna blow off the panels
now we're ready to test fit it what
we're gonna do is do it first dry make
sure that everything fits right couple
clean clothes once we've done a dry run
we'll take the panel back off blow it
off one more time and then we're ready
to apply the acrylic metal bonding
adhesive and we're good to go
now carborundum has got two great
products for metal bonding they got a 45
minute and a 75 minute acrylic and for
everything else they got a 90 minute
epoxy both the application is identical
well the acrylic metal Bhandar has great
corrosion resistant properties but
you're gonna want to put on a set of
latex gloves problem is and also sticks
to your hands really well here at
legendary we do full physicals before
you start
now you're gonna purge the system again
whoa came up fast
make sure it's coming out equally once
you're sure that they're going to screw
on the applicator we're also going to
make sure it's coming out even here we
go once we've got color we're good to go
now we're going to lay a bead along the
entire panel edge
you don't want to work around both
panels it doesn't have to be a heavy
bead
you're gonna want to do the same on the
door skin
just a nice uniform bead all the way
down
then your next step is you're gonna take
an acid brush and just start wiping it
just making sure that good coverage
right to the edge
the nice part of either one of these
systems is you have some time this is a
45 minute system and you also have a 75
minute system if you're doing a bigger
panel
I'm just gonna make sure because this
thing is a great corrosion resistant
product you want to make sure that you
cover all of the bare metal with the
material the other nice thing about this
material is is a weld through material
so if you want it to weld it as well
you're more than capable of doing it
with it for the extra 10 seconds it
takes to go over it twice and just make
sure that this thing doesn't especially
bonding aluminum and steel you want to
make sure it's covered nicely
then what you're gonna do is lay one
more bead around the door frame edge
we're just going to make sure that we
got a nice bead along here just so we
have some clamping pressure
all right we're ready to go so now we've
got some time but you can't apply it
twice you can move it around but you
can't lift it and break the bond so
we're gonna grab the panel we're gonna
just put the clothes in we'll use that
to hold it initially once all the clecos
are in we're gonna use now some vice
grips basically the other nice thing
about this product is you can't over
clamp but it's got glass beads in it
that keep it at the correct distance
what you're gonna do is wipe off the
excess because the excess will never get
hard the only time it bonds is that when
it's between two pieces of metal that
have been sanded you know somewhere
between 30 and 80 grit so if the edges
aren't 100% dry after you know a couple
hours then don't worry about it just
wipe off the excess and the important
part is in between the two pieces of
metal it's rock solid
so after an hour and a half you can take
off the clamps after eight hours it's
fully cured that's best practices for
metal bonding